All right, So I hope that
in the previous video you have
already given some try
in implementing authorization.
But just in case you were not able
to, don't worry, here we are
to implement the authorization.
So what I'm going to do is
first things first,
let's say we don't have any concept
of authorization, right?
I am going to create a special
route, let's say admin
routes js as the name says.
This particular routes is going
to contain some critical
routes which are only and only
be allowed to an admin.
So what I can do is first of all
I'll just borrow some code that
is import express from Express.
That is nice.
So I'm just importing the express
and let me just create
a new router that is this
particular stuff and then I
can just say export default.
Okay, Export default the router.
So imagine all the routes that we are
going to add here is only and only
be restricted to the admin only.
Okay, so let's create a router, A,
get route Users.
Let's say admin wants to see
all the users that are available
in our database.
Technically it's
an internal information.
You don't want that any person can
see all the information about
the available users on the platform.
But yes, admin can see all the users.
So let's say this is one
route that I want to build.
So let's just quickly code
this particular route.
So I'll just create
an asynchronous function here.
Okay.
And I'll just say request response.
And let me just zoom in the code
little bit more so that
you can see it more clearly.
So how to implement this particular
stuff is first of all let's import
DB from DB js file.
Okay, nice.
And let's also import something
from you know, one directory up.
Then we can go into the DB and then
we can go into the schema js file.
So what do you want to import here?
I want to import the users table.
Nice.
So here we have the db oh
by the way, I imported it wrongly.
I should have done DB
slash index js Yes.
Now it is basically the database.
You can see it's a database file.
Nice.
So now what I want to basically
do here is my router is here.
So how to query all the users?
I can just say const Users equals to.
I can just put an await and then
I can just say DB dot select.
Okay, from which table
do you want to select?
I want to select from users table
and that's it right this basically
means select all the users.
Then I can just say return a,
response.JSON saying users.
That's it.
So this users is what?
Basically an array of users.
And of course you don't want
to send password, right?
You don't want to send the password
and salt on the front end.
So let's add, that, hey, I want to
send an ID that is user stable ID.
I want to send the name that is users
table.name and I want to send
the email that is user stable email.
That's it.
I want to send.
Now let me just quickly spin
up my postman, okay.
And test this particular route
if this is working or not.
Right now you can see we have
not done any authentication.
No authorization.
Nothing is there.
Right?
So here is my postman.
So what I'm going to do is,
by the way, we forgot to register
this particular router.
So we have to go
into our index js file.
Let's import this routes, right?
So I can just say import,
admin router from dot slash
routes admin router js.
So what I could basically
do, I can just say if anything
starts with admin,
you please use the admin router.
That's it.
And by the way, I have just noticed
we have a lot of unused imports,
so it's okay to remove them.
Right?
Nice.
So let me just start my
server up and running.
So PNPM dev starts my server
at localhost8000.
Great.
So if I say admin slash users,
I will clear my token.
See?
No authentication.
Okay, let's clear the body,
no body, no header and send.
You can see I'm able
to get all the users.
So as of now, we only have
one user in our database.
Correct.
Technically, this is wrong.
First thing we should implement is
that the user must be authenticated.
Correct user must be authenticated.
Now, one way to do the authentication
is I can just say that if
there is no request dot user.
Right?
If you remember from
the previous classes, we have
a middleware function.
If the user exists, we are
populating this request user.
So if there is no request user,
that means the user is logged out.
You can just say return a,
response.status code of 401
and then saying.JSON.
okay.
And error that.
Oh, sorry, error.
Please don't import this error
from here and you can just send
an error that you must be
authenticated to access this.
So this is one way
of controlling the authentication.
Right?
So now if you send, you can
see you Must be authenticated.
But now if I try to send the bearer
token along, okay, I have
to generate, I have to log in first.
So let me just do a quick login.
This is my token.
Let me just copy this token
and I'm just going
to replace this token and send.
Now you can see
the authentication is working.
Now.
Guys, tell me one thing,
is this a correct way
to do an authentication?
Of course not, right?
Technically I don't want
to repeat this code.
If you see we are repeating this code
at couple of places, right?
We are repeating this particular
code at couple of places.
So you should not repeat a code.
Rather see what I could do.
I can create a folder
of middlewares, right?
And I can create a middleware
of auth middleware js.
What I can basically do in this auth
middleware js is I can
create a middleware number one.
I also want to first of all move this
middleware to this file, right?
To make it more clean.
So let's create a middleware
here that is const,
authentication middleware.
Let's name it as
So this middleware does what?
It's just an asynchronous function.
Okay, let's say it's
an async function.
And what it basically has, it, it
has access to request response.
And next.
Now what I can do is I can safely.
First of all, let's have a try catch.
See, I'm just going to type,
I'm just going to type here.
So what we are basically
doing here is try catch.
If there is any error, just
call the next function.
Okay, that's it.
But if it is not what you do,
you try to read the headers.
Okay, I'm just copying one by one.
Okay, Try to read the headers.
Try to.
If the header does not exist,
that means, okay, the user is
not authenticated, he's not
sending you any kind of headers.
Just call the next function next,
you know, next router
in the middleware stack.
Okay.
But if it does not start with
the bearer, of course it's an error.
So you can just throw
an error response.
Nice.
Cool.
Okay, then you got the token.
So I'll just copy here and I'll
just say, hey, here is the token.
Very nice.
Then you try to decode the token.
Right?
Right.
So you want to make sure that
this token is generated by you.
So you do a, verify.
But don't forget to import jwt.
So import JWT from JSON web token.
Nice.
And if you got the decoded you just
say request user is equals to
decoded and call the next function.
Very nice, very nice.
Okay, and just export
this function from here.
Now what you can basically do is
instead of this logic, I can say,
hey, I want to import something
from dot slash middlewares slash,
you know, auth middleware.
And you can just import
the authentication middleware.
Now instead of doing all this
particular stuff here, I
can just make it say app.
Use the authentication middleware.
That is it.
Right?
Let's make sure if everything
is working, you can see
everything is working.
Right?
I'm still logged in.
And if I say no,
you can see I'm logged out.
If I say bearer token,
I am logged in.
Very nice.
Now what I can do is along with this
I can create one more middleware.
I can just say export const
Ensure authenticated.
Now basically what I'm trying to do
here is this is again a function.
Okay, let's say it's an again
async function which has access
to request response.
And next, this middleware ensures
that you have to be logged in.
Okay, that is very simple.
If no request user, this is going
to say return response status,
sorry, response status of 401 JSON.
And I can just say an error that is
you must be authenticated.
But if it is not the case, I can
just call the next function.
So this is a very simple
logic which makes sure that
the user is authenticated.
So that means to use this
particular middleware, what I could
basically do is I can go
into this user route, correct?
And what I can do, I can basically
import something from middleware
auth middleware and I can try
to import the ensure authenticated.
And just by putting this thing here.
Now this particular function
will only run if user exists.
So now I can safely remove
this nice similar.
I can just put it here,
ensure authenticated.
And I can just remove this logic.
Because technically this function
right here, which I am highlighting
will only run if this
middleware calls the next function.
This middleware will call
the next function only
if request user exists.
Nice.
Right, so ensure authenticated
basically can be even used here.
So instead of doing this thing, I can
say import something from dot dot
slash middlewares auth middleware
import ensure authenticated.
Put ensure authenticated as
a middleware on the route
level and remove this.
That's it.
Let's test it out.
Send.
Is it working really nice.
No, auth send.
You can see it's not working.
And if I say bearer token
and Send, you can see.
Nice.
Cool.
Now, similar to this,
similar to this, let's start
adding the authorization.
Correct.
So what is authorization?
Technically what I could do is
I can add a new field here.
Okay, that is a role.
Now role can be basically a string.
Role can be an enum.
So it is basically what I
would like to do is I would
like to create an enum.
So pgenum.
So let's say export const User role.
Enum.
Okay, Equals to pgenum.
Let's call this enum as
user, underscore role.
Okay.
And values can be either a user or
the values can be either an admin.
Let's say these are the only
two available values.
So I can say that, hey,
you are basically a, enum.
Okay, that's great.
And you are not nullable.
And your default value is what?
Your default value is basically user.
Nice.
So this basically adds a role
property to the user.
So let me just do one thing.
Let me just pin up a studio first.
PNPM DB Studio.
Okay, DB Studio enter.
My DB Studio is up and running
on this particular link.
So let me just open the link.
Not, user only num.
I have to copy this.
So I copied the wrong
thing and paste it here.
Now let's wait for a while so
you can see in the users.
Right now there is no role.
Right.
So what I'm going to do, create
a new terminal PNPM DB push.
So this has applied the changes.
Now if I go back and I do
a refresh now, you should be able
to see a role in the users.
So if I just say users,
where can I see?
Okay, let me just remove this.
Can I see the role?
Yes.
So you can see that the role is user.
Right.
Now what I could do is.
That is good.
The role is user.
Very nice.
Technically, when you log in,
okay, when you log in,
what I should do is I should also
put this role in your token.
So when I'm trying to do a login,
I should also query for the role
that is user table dot role.
Okay?
Now in the payload I can
also put a role that is
existing user dot role.
That's it.
Great.
So now the role is also
in the payload.
That means if I log in once again.
Now this is my new token.
I copy this particular token
and I go on to JWT IO website.
Okay, Just for the debugging
purpose and I paste it here.
Now you can see this is what
my token payload looks like.
You can see I have id,
I have email I have name role.
Now technically, this role
is very interesting, right?
Based on this role, what I can do,
I can create one more
middleware that is restricted,
say restrict to admin.
Okay?
Or I can say restrict to role,
which is an async function.
Okay?
What this function
basically takes is a role.
You have to give me a role
which can be either admin
or this can be either user.
Correct?
So this can be either admin or user.
So it's basically a role.
Okay?
Now see, what I can do is I
can return a new function
from here which has request
a response and a next correct.
There is no need to be async.
This is okay, now see what I can do.
We can basically assume the user
is already authenticated.
I can just say if request
user.role is not equals to
this particular role.
Correct.
In this case, I can just say return
response dot status code.
Okay?
That is 4,01 of course,
dot JSON error.
You are not authorized, okay?
To access this resource.
Very nice.
Else, sorry, resource.
Okay, very nice.
But if, if the role exists,
you can just say the return
the next function.
That is it.
Now see what I could do.
It's basically a closure function.
If I call this function
with role as admin, this returns me
a middleware function, right?
This is how I have designed it.
And then this middleware
function can be used.
So it's a closure function.
So that means going on
to the admin routes.
Now I can import an authentic.
Sorry, the restrictor role.
Now technically what I can
do is I can just say construct,
admin restrict.
Okay?
Restrict middleware.
Okay.
Equals to restrict to role admin.
Nice.
And then I can also change
the admin restrict middleware.
Now this particular route is only
and only restricted to the admins.
Let's give it a try.
Okay, so if I copy this
particular token, I have a new
token, paste it and send.
You are not authorized.
Why?
Because my role is user.
Correct.
If I go in my database,
I change my role to admin.
I have to now log out and log in.
Basically I have to generate
a new token for myself.
Right?
Because, you might have heard that
whenever there is a problem,
often the admin asks you to hey, can
you please do a logout and login so
that your token is refreshed.
Now my token contains
the role as admin.
Nice.
Now what I can do.
Now if I go here, I replace
my token and I do a send.
Now you can see I'm able
to access this resource, right?
So this is basically kind of
a role based access
control using the middleware.
So congratulations.
Yes, it was that simple to implement.
Okay, so you can have multiple
roles, not only user and admin,
you can have moderator,
you can have multiple roles.
Then you can just create
a middleware, a utility function
which checks for that role
and you can just chain it.
Now technically I don't want
to put it here right.
If you see all the roles here are
going to be restricted to admin.
So what I can do is I can put it
on a router level that is router use
number one is ensure authenticated
and router use admin this thing.
Now I don't have to put
on every route.
So now every route that I create
in this particular file
will use these two middlewares
because these middlewares are
applied on the route level.
So going back test your
implementation, everything
is working fine.
Nice.